# SVM-support-vector-machine
Scripts for supervised training using support vector machine.

In this project, the objective is to classify a sample collected from machine vibration to define its status. 
Vibration analysis is commonly used in the industry as a predictive analysis technique.

The first to present a work on oscillations was Galileo Galilei, and his research was based on a simple pendulum and string vibration, representing an important foundation for the theory of vibrations. The idea arose when observing the behavior of a lamp in a church in Pisa, with its pendular movements and when comparing with its own pulse, found that the period was independent of the amplitude of the oscillations.
Any movement that is repeated after a period of time is called vibration or oscillation. The swinging of a pendulum and the movement of a plucked string are typical examples of vibration (RAO, 2009, p.2).
Everything that exists is in constant vibration and even our day-to-day actions are directly linked to the vibration, even if we don't realize it. To communicate, we use speech, which is nothing more than the vibration of the vocal cords and hearing to receive the sound produced, we perceive with the vibration of small bones inside the ear and eardrums.
Many physicists, mathematicians and philosophers, from various eras, have published studies on vibrations in different fields. Although he left no written account, Pythagoras in the 6th century B.C. investigated musical sounds with the use of a monochord instrument with a vibrating string.

In 1686, when Sir Isaac Newton published his greatest work on the law of universal gravitation, he also presented the three laws of motion, with his second Newton's law as the most important for modern study of vibration, being used frequently in books current. But it was Brook Taylor, in 1713, who perfected the procedure used by Galileo, introducing partial derivatives into the equations of motion of independent frequencies equal to the number of mass particles, thus obtaining the theoretical solution to the vibrating string problem, Taylor's theorem and the natural frequency.
Whenever the natural frequency of vibration of a machine or structure coincides with the frequency of external excitation, a phenomenon known as resonance occurs, which results in excessive deflections and failure. (RAO, 2009, p.5).

The study of vibrations is of great importance due to the effects that can be produced. In order to reduce as much as possible these effects generated by rotating machines, it is essential to know the history of the equipment, in order to identify and evaluate its potential for failures, avoiding malfunctions and the breakdown of the same or its structure where is found.
